Stream aggregation doc improvements based on users feedback (#3934)
VictoriaMetrics/VictoriaMetrics: docs/stream-aggregation.md

See [the list of aggregate output](#aggregation-outputs), which can be specified at `output` field.
See also [aggregating by labels](#aggregating-by-labels).

> Field `interval` is recommended to be set to the value that are at least several times higher than your scrape/push interval.

Reviewer: NIT: scrape/push interval -> metrics collect interval

Author: fixed

> Field `interval` is recommended to be set to the value that are at least several times higher than your metrics collect interval.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Field `interval` is recommended to be set to a value at least several times higher than your metrics collect interval.
```

### Summing input metrics

> If the monitored app calculates some events and then sends the calculated number of events to VictoriaMetrics

Reviewer: please change all app to application

Author: done

`total` only makes sense for aggregating [counter](https://docs.victoriametrics.com/keyConcepts.html#counter) type metrics.

The results of `total` is equal to the `sum(some_counter)` query.

For example, see below time series produced by config with aggregation interval `1m` and `by: ["instance"]` and  the regular query:

<img alt="total aggregation" src="stream-aggregation-check-total.png">

### increase

`increase` returns the increase of input [counters](https://docs.victoriametrics.com/keyConcepts.html#counter).
`increase` only makes sense for aggregating [counter](https://docs.victoriametrics.com/keyConcepts.html#counter) type metrics.

The results of `increase` with aggregation interval of `1m` is equal to the `increase(some_counter[1m])` query.

For example, see below time series produced by config with aggregation interval `1m` and `by: ["instance"]` and  the regular query:

<img alt="increase aggregation" src="stream-aggregation-check-increase.png">

### count_series

`count_series` counts the number of unique [time series](https://docs.victoriametrics.com/keyConcepts.html#time-series).

> The results of `count_series` is equal to the `count(some_counter)` query.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The results of `count_series` is equal to the `sum(my_metric)` query.
```

`some_counter` implies it should be a counter. afaik, it could be anything in this case. Is my understanding correct?

Reviewer 2: same for other examples below

Author: fixed

### count_samples

`count_samples` counts the number of input [samples](https://docs.victoriametrics.com/keyConcepts.html#raw-samples).

The results of `count_samples` with aggregation interval of `1m` is equal to the `count_over_time(some_counter[1m])` query.

### sum_samples

`sum_samples` sums input [sample values](https://docs.victoriametrics.com/keyConcepts.html#raw-samples).

The results of `sum_samples` with aggregation interval of `1m` is equal to the `sum_over_time(some_counter[1m])` query.

For example, see below time series produced by config with aggregation interval `1m` and the regular query:

<img alt="sum_samples aggregation" src="stream-aggregation-check-sum-samples.png">

### last

`last` returns the last input [sample value](https://docs.victoriametrics.com/keyConcepts.html#raw-samples).

The results of `last` with aggregation interval of `1m` is equal to the `last_over_time(some_counter[1m])` query.

This aggregation output doesn't make much sense with `by` lists specified in the [config](#stream-aggregation-config). 

> The result of aggregation by labels in this case will be undetermined, because it depends on the order of processing the time series.

Reviewer 2: so does it ignore `by` then?

Author: No, it isn't

### avg

`avg` returns the average input [sample value](https://docs.victoriametrics.com/keyConcepts.html#raw-samples).

The results of `avg` with aggregation interval of `1m` is equal to the `avg_over_time(some_counter[1m])` query.

For example, see below time series produced by config with aggregation interval `1m` and `by: ["instance"]` and  the regular query:

<img alt="avg aggregation" src="stream-aggregation-check-avg.png">

### stddev

`stddev` returns [standard deviation](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Standard_deviation) for the input [sample values](https://docs.victoriametrics.com/keyConcepts.html#raw-samples).

The results of `stddev` with aggregation interval of `1m` is equal to the `stddev_over_time(some_counter[1m])` query.

### stdvar

`stdvar` returns [standard variance](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Variance) for the input [sample values](https://docs.victoriametrics.com/keyConcepts.html#raw-samples).

The results of `stdvar` with aggregation interval of `1m` is equal to the `stdvar_over_time(some_counter[1m])` query.

For example, see below time series produced by config with aggregation interval `1m` and the regular query:

> <img alt="stdvar aggregation" src="stream-aggregation-check-stdvar.png">

Reviewer 2: hm, the image shows the discrepancy between rollup and raw query. I'm not sure I understand why it is so...

## Aggregation outputs

The aggregations are calculated during the `interval` specified in the [config](#stream-aggregation-config)
and then sent to the storage.

If `by` and `without` lists are specified in the [config](#stream-aggregation-config),
then the [aggregation by labels](#aggregating-by-labels) is performed additionally to aggregation by `interval`.

> Below are aggregation outputs that can be put in the `outputs` list at [stream aggregation config](#stream-aggregation-config).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Below are aggregation functions that can be put in the `outputs` list at [stream aggregation config](#stream-aggregation-config).
```

Author: @hagen1778 i'm not sure that "function" is the right word for the streaming aggregation algorithm, because throughout this article "output" was used for it.

### total

> * `total` generates output [counter](https://docs.victoriametrics.com/keyConcepts.html#counter) by summing the input counters.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`total` generates output [counter](https://docs.victoriametrics.com/keyConcepts.html#counter) by summing the input counters.
```

  * The `total` handler properly handles input counter resets.

>   * The `total` handler returns garbage when something other than [counter](https://docs.victoriametrics.com/keyConcepts.html#counter) is passed to the input.

Reviewer: handler returns garbage -> we need to change wording for that

Reviewer 2: I didn't get the meaning of the sentence. It should be re-phrased in a more simple manner

Reviewer 2: @Amper prefer simple and straight wording. This makes reading easier for users.
See https://developers.google.com/tech-writing

Author: Ok, i'll try to reword it, but this particular text was written before my changes :)

Author: fixed

> The algorithm of `total` output can be represented visually by querying the source and aggregated data on the one graph, 

Reviewer: if you can avoid useing of passive voice that would be awesome

for `total` it will be queries of the following kind (with aggregation interval `1m`):

* `sum(some_counter)` - source data
* `some_counter:60s_total` - aggregated data

> There is the example of the graph with source and aggregated data 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
See the example of time series produced by `total` (with push interval `10s`, aggregation interval `1m` and `by: ["instance"]`) below:
```

> (with push interval `10s`, aggregation interval `1m` and `by: ["instance"]` in the stream aggregation config):

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

<img alt="total aggregation" src="stream-aggregation-check-total.png">

> You can see that the `total` output is equal to the sum of the source data every aggregation interval.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

### increase

> * `increase` returns the increase of input [counters](https://docs.victoriametrics.com/keyConcepts.html#counter).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`increase` returns the increase of input [counters](https://docs.victoriametrics.com/keyConcepts.html#counter).
```

  * The `increase` handler properly handles the input counter resets.
  * The `increase` handler returns garbage when something other than [counter](https://docs.victoriametrics.com/keyConcepts.html#counter) is passed to the input.

The algorithm of `increase` output can be represented visually by querying the source and aggregated data on the one graph,

> for `increase` it will be queries of the following kind (with aggregation interval `1m`):

Reviewer 2: The same issue with unclear wording as above. 
Just keep it simple:
```
The results of `increase` with aggregation interval of `1m` is equal to the `increase(some_counter[1m])` query.
For example, see below time series produced by config with aggregation interval `1m` and `by: ["instance"]` and  the regular query:
<pic>

```

Author: done

* `increase(some_counter[1m])` - source data
* `some_counter:60s_increase` - aggregated data 

There is the example of the graph with source and aggregated data
(with push interval `10s`, aggregation interval `1m` and `by: ["instance"]` in the stream aggregation config):

> <img alt="total aggregation" src="stream-aggregation-check-increase.png">

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
<img alt="increase aggregation" src="stream-aggregation-check-increase.png">
```
